I banos yen hey guys I don't normally
make videos address to health and
fitness and exercise uh if you don't
want to watch a video that kind close
the window and I hope that this is an
unusual video for this channel I think
there are some good reasons why someone
who is not an expert would share their
experience of their perspective I think
one of the interesting contrasts between
snake oil salesmen and people giving
sincere advice but sometimes you see it
even within the same source of advice is
actually the promise that these things
can be or should be effortless that you
can lose weight effortlessly that you
can gain strength or you can gain muscle
mass effortlessly and I think the mean
value in hearing the perspective of
someone like myself someone who is not
an expert someone who's not a health and
fitness guru or die coup or what have
you um is actually just being honest
about the opposite that it's not
effortless that it is effort that
involves hard work and suffering and
sacrifice it's pretty common to hear
people verbally or on the internet
talking about feelings of guilt that
they feel guilty for not exercising they
feel guilty that they didn't go to the
gym they feel guilty that not getting
exercise for me personally it's the
opposite I experience guilt that I do
exercise I experience guilt that I am
spending time on physical fitness
instead of studying instead of learning
something doing something productive
economically instead of doing something
with my daughter I'm a divorced parent
instead of doing other things that I
value more and you know if diet and
exercise were just about vanity I
wouldn't do them at all as you guys have
probably heard me say before on this
channel ultimately my reason for
exercising in the way that I do is to be
prepared for violence for unexpected
situations in any given time it's part
of an overall aesthetic of self-reliance
and preparedness it's not about
it's not about personal beauty for me uh
but even so I actually find it hard to
justify the time and effort that goes
into exercise and it is true that it has
negative impact on my life outside of
the time at the gym it is true that if
you lift weights seriously you do often
enough go to sleep with a lot of
physical pain with aching in your
muscles it'll mess up your sleep cycle
it'll mess up that's it'll mess up your
your work cycle messed up the other
things trying to do in the day it can
take a big chunk out of your um out of
your adult life if you go to the gym for
one hour a day seven days a week that's
a huge commitment and a huge sacrifice
now by contrast many many people my
generation spend much more than one hour
a day playing video games or watching
movies or doing other things so you can
justify it to yourself some extent by
replacing those activities with exercise
or by doing the same time you can work
out while you watch TV something I
mentioned later on in this video but
that's just my disclaimer at the start
of this video is there some value in
getting the perspective someone who is
not an expert I think the value is
probably just in being upfront about the
type of effort it is and the type of
pragmatic down-to-earth considerations
we all have to make when we're not
athletes and we're not experts and when
this is not the highest priority in our
lives it's not for me in a video
recently posted this channel I remarked
that the best form of activism political
activism is whatever sort of activism
really fits into your daily life if you
can be honest with yourself reflect on
what you can and can't do in a day this
video is about the topic of diet and
exercise the best form of diet and
exercise is what ever really fits into
your life it's very difficult I think
for us to be honest with ourselves about
that many people struggle with setting
expectations for themselves they can't
meet setting goals or targets they can't
live up to
and may be embraced in one ideal after
another in terms of their diet even if
it's within a deep vegan diet now I can
throw up a selfie picture of the shape
i'm currently in i am not an athlete I
spend most of my time over a desk
whether that's been at the University at
whatever job i may have the time or uh
you know studying researching writing on
my own i am a book bound desk bound
intellectual so i have no complaints
about the physical shape that i'm in for
many many people the questions about
diet and exercise the main question it
comes down to is the number of hours in
a day to spend one hour at the gym is
really a very serious sacrifice that
many people can't make if you can't go
to the gym for one hour a day if you
can't go to the gym for one hour every
second day I think you really need to
look at everything in your life and find
a combination of sources of exercise
that will work for you practically about
diets I can put up here some video
footage of what I actually eaten one day
here in China but the reality is again
the solutions have come up with living
in France Canada Cambodia Taiwan living
in different countries around the world
different times in my life and having
different jobs that took up the hours
the day in my life I've come up with
radically different solutions at one
point in my life I'm divorced back when
I was married I remember my wife and I
had a bread machine you know an
automatic bread maker and I totally
changed her diet early changed our daily
habits so we used to set the timer on
the bread machine wake up in the morning
and have fresh baked bread there was
another very different time in my life
when i bought a deep frying machine
again this is all vegan and I used to on
a daily basis make french fries for my
wife even though I myself do not really
eat french fries and I would make hummus
from scratch I would buy dried chickpeas
and do the whole process starting from
dried chickpeas of making hummus from
scratch but was just during one period
of my life in France that I did that I
have never made hummus before that I
never made homeless when i was living in
canada before I was in France and I
think I've never made homeless after
that like living here in China now
I don't buy chickpeas and make hummus so
there's one period of my life in which
we made our own bread albeit with a
machine that you know automated the
process made it a lot simpler than the
making bread out of the oven there's
another time in my life when I made
things like french fries and hummus
myself there been many different times
where life in which i made pasta I like
that most vegans you know chop up some
garlic chopped herbs and tomatoes make
her own past the sauce etc it's a touch
up some onions um but what I've eaten
outside of the house you know you know
in terms of buying food other people
make in terms of cooking for myself it
has been totally profoundly different
it's almost needless to say in a country
like Laos or Cambodia you don't eat the
same things that you eat in Saskatchewan
so it came up with radically different
solutions there have been times in my
life when I had absolutely no access to
a gym and I had to come up with bizarre
solutions from my own exercise also when
I first arrived in France I had no
exercise equipment I had no access to a
gym and I should this happen several
times in my life i actually purchased
really big bottles of water i bought six
liter bottles of water and i would work
out having one bottle in each hand and i
figured out all these different
exercises i could do with six liters of
water in each hand um to try to simulate
the kind of work that you might go to
the gym and of course push-ups doing
push-ups their feet elevated this is
often been the main form of exercise if
you get when I had no access to a gym no
access to normal fitness equipment or
what have you I just didn't have those
options my point here is I am NOT an
athlete I'm not trying to be an athlete
I think the vast majority of people
watching this video who may or may not
appreciate this advice or these
reflections you also are not athletes
and are not planning to become athletes
so the kind of pragmatism you need to
have both in terms of the methods and
means you're using in terms the fruit
food preparation you're doing how many
hours you have to prepare food you're
not a professional chef you're also kind
of professional athlete how much
exercise can you get and what are the
targets or goals you set for yourself
women and men alike I think struggle
with setting targets or goals that are
aesthetic or emotional how they want to
look how they want to feel I think
that's a bad target or goal to have
I think you should set targets or goals
that are completely objective in terms
of strength so for myself for many many
years I've had a very simple target or
goal as long as I can do 200 push-ups
and I can bench press 200 pounds I'm
happy now here in China we use kilograms
for me to lift 90 kilograms 95 kilograms
this is approximately 200 pounds it's
actually not that big a deal I do that
quite casually at the gym now I do bench
press 200 210 what have you I me get up
to doing 220 with you know equal ease my
point is not that this is a ceiling on
how much I want to lift but I never plan
to lift 300 pounds i'm not trying to
inch my way up to 300 if i'm doing 200
comfortably than i'm happy whether or
not i once in a while lifting 230 or
something the the upper limit is not
what I'm concerned about but the point
is that I can lift 200 pounds now my own
body weight I is I don't think it's ever
going to be below 200 pounds so when I
do push-ups I do push-ups with my feet
elevated dramatically elevated not
slight little bit dramatically elevated
with my feet flat so there's almost no
way to my toes I'm lifting a very large
percentage of my body weight when I do
push-ups so given that my body weight is
about 100 kilograms it's not surprising
you know given the regularity of doing
push-ups with that much body weight that
I would also be able to bench press more
than 90 kilograms so those are very
reasonable attainable goals for me not
just to reach I've already reached them
now I've already surpassed it now
whatever you want to say uh but for me
to maintain over the long term they're
not based on how I look they're not
based on how I feel they're not based on
how much I away even not I for me as a
man I do not really care about my body
weight in terms of how much fat I'm
carrying around with me my main concern
really is my capacity to cope with
injury to defend myself if violence
situations arise to be prepared at all
times to deal with extreme situations
that do come up as life goes on and
other than that I'm concerned with
wasting time I don't want to waste time
or money
with preparing food with consuming food
I don't want to waste time with exercise
either and that's one of the reasons why
I tend to go for more brutal simple
workouts that get a lot done in one hour
or in however much time you have coming
back to France I started off with just
those six liter bottles of water and
push-ups I did order waits that
eventually arrived you know ordered on
the Internet some weights that I could
use in my apartment and that was many
times my life where I had no gym and
where you know I think for many people
the main opportunity you have to work
out is when you otherwise would be
listening to the radio when you will be
watching television if you watch the
television news for 45 minutes that may
be the only time you've got in the day
when you could be lifting weights so if
you can get set up in a way where you
watch the news or you watch this youtube
video now while you're lifting weights
your home I think for many middle-aged
people those type of workouts you need
to look into you need to look into
getting yourself an olympic bar and disc
weights and to be able to do basic
powerlifting in the comfort of your own
apartment because when you include the
travel time to and from a gym i think
the vast majority of people have jobs
you have kids do not have the option of
exercising in a gym so when I was taking
care of my newborn daughter again I'm
now divorced uh but during those long
months long sleepless nights there are
many many times where i cradled my
daughter in my arms i rocked her to
sleep and then as soon as she fell
asleep as soon as she she drifted off to
sleep I you know came to the other end
of the room was one big room the crib
was actually in the safe room and I was
I was lifting weights at the other end
of the room and if my daughter woke up
from her nap woke up from sleep put down
the weights pick up my daughter you know
you juggle it this way so whether it's
your work schedule or your parenting
schedule the responsibilities you have
in life one of them's are reflected on
many times this channel is that it's
rather sad I think that so many people
try to model their lives after people
who are on permanent vacation people who
have no jobs no responsibilities people
who have many many hours to spend
worrying with a diet worrying about food
preparation and also an unlimited amount
of time to spend on both exercise and
relaxation for the vast majority of
that is not useful at all there is
another guy who gives health advice
you're on YouTube called Joe best many
people criticize him because they point
out that he's in worse shape than I am
you know in terms of his body fat level
of musculature would have you he's not a
typical example of a health guru but one
of the things he says in his own defense
which i think is an interesting point he
says um you know if you want to learn
about making money don't ask someone
who's born rich don't just ask someone
who's skinny about how to manage your
weight or how to exercise or what have
you you need to learn from people who've
struggled with their weight i would say
instead you need to talk to people who
struggle with circumstances similar to
your own when I was the University of
Victoria just a few months ago the
University in Canada I actually have
many questions about diet and exercise
from my own professors in a sense that's
smart they're asking me not because of
expert I'm not an expert uh they're nice
because men athlete I'm not an athlete
I'm not a Paragon I'm not some standard
of unattainable health or well-being but
I was someone who was in many ways
struggling with exactly the same
schedule at the same grocery store the
same geography that they were they went
to work every day on that same campus
where I went to work as a student
they're going to work there as a
professor so for me as some day I'm 37
years old they were looking to me and
wondering ok how are you coping with all
these same factors now a lot of them
didn't like the advice I gave them one
of the best tips I had there in that
climate and that circumstances for
weight loss or fir adding more exercise
to your day was that when you walk to
the University which me was a very very
long walk uphill long walk uphill get a
backpack and fill it with stones you'd
be amazed you get a wonderful work out
with a backpack full of stones what
would just be a passive low-impact
exercise your day can actually become a
really serious source of exertion you
can really get a great workout that also
in my opinion energizes you for all the
other exercise you do push-ups or
what-have-you whatever other forms
actually no wait so heavy um III I think
in every way you know whether you fill
up your backpack with a bunch
books you're not playing to to read that
day or you managed to fill up your
backpack with a bunch of stones I think
there are little ways that you can work
more exercise into a hectic schedule but
what's interesting to me is that's
exactly the kind of advice you're never
going to get from a pro athlete you're
never going to get from someone who's on
permanent vacation that's kind of advice
you would only get from someone who's
struggling with the same schedule and
even the same geography you know as
where you work and where you live so
that's about it guys um in many ways
what I have access here to here in China
I green vegetables every day I white
rice every day I had a very kind of
minimalistic diet there's no way for the
vast majority there's no way you could
imitate it if I moved back to
Saskatchewan in Canada there's no way I
could eat the same stuff i'm eating now
there's no way i could even afford to
spend the time preparing the dishes for
myself that i'm currently eating to take
something like a white cabbage and
blanch it and prepare it if you're
cooking a meal for a group of people you
do that when you live alone you're not
going to put in that much time and
effort just have a plate full of white
cabbage and I eat a lot of cabbage
you're a shy I eat a lot of cabbage eat
a lot of broccoli what have you so um
these are the these are the minor
miseries and obstacles that we all have
to cope with in some kind of pragmatic
down-to-earth way